Knee Pain is one of the common problems faced by people of all ages. It can be caused due to injury such as torn ligament, medical conditions like arthritis, age related factors, Obesity, heredity, heavy physical activity etc. Most of the people experience temporary knee pain which may be caused by either some accident or injury. Knee Pain can be usually treated by Physiotherapy, however in extreme situations you may require surgical treatment as well.

What causes Knee Pain:
Torn Ligament by Accident like ACL injury

Medical conditions like Arthritis

Bone Fractures

Tendinitis (Pain in the front part of the knee, which gets worse while climbing stairs)

Dislocation of Knee Cap 

Heavy Physical Activity 

Metabolic Disease like Rickets

Symptoms of Knee Pain
Constant Pain around the Knee

Cracking sounds in the knee

Discomfort in the knee while you are using it

Sharp pain in the knee while using it like climbing stairs

Not able to straighten the knee

Swelling/ stiffness in the knee

Redness or feeling of warmth in the knee 

Pain after prolonged sitting

Kne
Knee pain treatment depends on the intensity and cause of the pain. Following are some of the way to treat Knee pain:

For temporary Pain relief: Medicines (like painkillers), Hot pack etc.

For reducing swelling or inflammation, you can use an ice pack or a cold pack

Certain Injections containing corticosteroids, Hyaluronic Acid and Platelets Rich Plasma are given to the patient to provide pain relief to the patient which may last a few months.

For long term improvement Physiotherapy treatment of Knee pain is recommended which involves strengthening of knee muscles. It has been proven as an effective way for the treatment of most types of Knee pain. It should be done at a place where the patient is most comfortable and under the guidance of a trained physiotherapist. YourPhysio provides online physiotherapy sessions at the comfort of your home under the guidance of an experienced physiotherapist.

Surgery is one possible remedy if there is no alternative treatment available for the patient Eg. Knee Replacement, ACL Reconstruction etc.

